ROX-28326: Custom Prometheus metrics (#95141)
openshift/openshift-docs: configuration/configure-custom-prometheus-metrics.adoc

Reviewer: If we want to move this under "Monitoring" we would convert from an assembly to a module (move to "modules" folder, content type = CONCEPT) and remove lines 4, 5, and 7).

Content should be in modular docs format, with concept info in a different module than procedure info. So lines 9-101 would be in that concept module. Then you would have a separate module for configuring user workload monitoring that is a content type = PROCEDURE, maybe named `configure-user-workload-monitoring`.

Then you would call those modules from the monitoring assembly (monitor-acs.adoc) as follows:

```
...
include::modules/monitoring-osp.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/monitoring-custom-prometheus.adoc[leveloffset=+1]
include::modules/configure-custom-prometheus-metrics.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/configure-user-workload-monitoring[leveloffset=+2]
include::modules/monitor-osp-disable-operator.adoc[leveloffset=+2]
...
```
There is a lot of info in the [guidelines](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#writing-assemblies) about mod docs, assemblies, and modules - and some of our docs are inconsistent in implementing these guidelines. However, we are trying to make sure everything new (at least) is correct for when we migrate our docs into the new doc tool/format (sometime next year). We'll be using scripts to migrate and want to have as little to fix as possible. :)

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="configure-custom-prometheus-metrics"]
= Configuring custom Prometheus metrics
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: configure-custom-prometheus-metrics

toc::[]

[role="_abstract"]
With {product-title}, you can enable some Prometheus metrics to be exposed on the `/metrics` path of the central API endpoint.

The available metric categories include:

* Image vulnerabilities;
* Node vulnerabilities;
* Policy violations;
* Total policy numbers;
* Cluster health;
* Certificate expiry.

Each category is configured with a data gathering period and a list of metrics. A metric is associated with a set of labels.

[NOTE]
====

> The `/metrics` path is accessible for API tokens with Administration resource view permissions. The values of the labels are subject to Scoped Access Control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `/metrics` path is accessible for API tokens with Administration resource view permissions. The values of the labels are subject to scoped access control.
```

====

> The currently enabled metrics, if any, are shown on the *System Configuration* page of the *Platform Configuration* section of the {product-title} UI. In edit mode, the UI allows you to enable or disable one of the predefined metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The currently enabled metrics are shown on the *System Configuration* page of the *Platform Configuration* section of the {product-title-short} portal. In edit mode, the portal allows you to enable or disable one of the predefined metrics.
```

> The `/v1/config` API allows for configuring metrics with custom metric names and a custom set of labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `/v1/config` API to configure metrics with custom metric names and a custom set of labels.
```
See: https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#allow

Accepted image vulnerability labels:

* Cluster
* Namespace
* Deployment
* IsPlatformWorkload
* ImageID
* ImageRegistry
* ImageRemote
* ImageTag
* Component
* ComponentVersion
* OperatingSystem
* CVE
* CVSS
* Severity
* EPSSPercentile
* EPSSProbability
* IsFixable

Accepted node vulnerability labels:

* Cluster
* Node
* Kernel
* OperatingSystem
* OSImage
* Component
* ComponentVersion
* CVE
* CVSS
* Severity
* EPSSPercentile
* EPSSProbability
* IsFixable
* IsSnoozed

Accepted policy violation labels:

* Cluster
* Namespace
* Resource
* Deployment
* IsDeploymentActive
* IsPlatformComponent
* Policy
* Categories
* Severity
* Action
* Message
* Stage
* State
* Entity
* EntityName

> The total policy numbers are exposed as `rox_central_cfg_total_policies` metric, and contains the following label:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The total policy numbers are exposed as the `rox_central_cfg_total_policies` metric, which contains the following label:
```

* Enabled

The cluster health metric is exposed as `rox_central_health_cluster_info`, and contains the following labels:

* Cluster
* Type
* Status

> * Upgradability

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Upgradeability
```
? Not sure if it's misspelled here or in the label itself

The certificate expiry metric is exposed as `rox_central_cert_exp_hours`, and contains the following label:

* Component

> == Configuring User Workload monitoring

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Configuring user workload monitoring
```

Also see comments regarding breaking this out into a separate module

.Prerequisites

> Ensure that the user workload monitoring is enabled in the cluster by checking the content of the `cluster-monitoring-config` `ConfigMap` in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Ensure that the user workload monitoring is enabled in the cluster by checking the content of the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace.
```
See https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#config-map

> If the `ConfigMap` does not exist, create it with the following content:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the config map does not exist, create it with the following content:
```
I don't think we are allowed to have [procedures in the prerequisite](https://github.com/redhat-documentation/modular-docs/blob/main/modular-docs-manual/files/TEMPLATE_PROCEDURE_doing-one-procedure.adoc) so we might have to make this into a separate step under the procedure and mark it (Optional):

For example:

.Prerequisites

* User workload monitoring is enabled in the cluster. Check that the `cluster-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace includes `enableUserWorkload: true` for `config.yaml`.

Then, as step 1 in procedure:

1. (Optional) Create a `cluster-monitoring-config` config map in the `openshift-monitoring` namespace with the following content:

(yaml)

[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
  name: cluster-monitoring-config
  namespace: openshift-monitoring
data:
  config.yaml: 'enableUserWorkload: true'
----

.Procedure

> . Create a service account to be used for authorization in the namespace where the central is installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a service account to be used for authorization in the namespace where Central is installed.
```

> . Create a service account token secret in the namespace where the central is installed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a service account token secret in the namespace where Central is installed using the following content:
```

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
type: kubernetes.io/service-account-token
metadata:
 name: <secret-name>
 annotations:
   kubernetes.io/service-account.name: <service account name>
----

> . Go to *Platform Configuration* -> *Access Control* -> *Permission sets* and create a permission set with Read Access to the following resources:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Go to *Platform Configuration* -> *Access Control* -> *Permission sets* and create a permission set with `Read` access to the following resources:
```

    * Administration
    * Alert
    * Cluster
    * Deployment
    * Image
    * Namespace
    * Node
    * WorkflowAdministration

. Go to *Platform Configuration* -> *Access Control* -> *Roles* and create a role with a desired access scope and the previously created permission set.

> . Go to *Platform Configuration* -> *Integrations* -> *Machine access configuration*, click on *Kubernetes service account*, click *Edit*, and add a new rule with a role mapping for key 'sub', value 'system:serviceaccount:<central namespace>:<service account name>' and the role, created in the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Go to *Platform Configuration* -> *Integrations* -> *Machine access configuration* and click on*Kubernetes service account*. Click *Edit* and add a new rule with a role mapping for key 'sub', value 'system:serviceaccount:<central namespace>:<service account name>' and the role created in the previous step.
```

> [id="configure-custom-prometheus-metrics"]

Author: ```suggestion
:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="configure-custom-prometheus-metrics"]
```

:context: configure-custom-prometheus-metrics

toc::[]

[role="_abstract"]
With {product-title}, you can enable some Prometheus metrics to be exposed on the `/metrics` path of the central API endpoint.

The available metric categories include:

* Image vulnerabilities.

Each category is configured with a data gathering period and a list of metrics. A metric is associated with a set of labels.

[NOTE]
====
The `/metrics` path is accessible for API tokens with Administration resource view permissions. The values of the labels are subject to Scoped Access Control.
====

The currently enabled metrics, if any, are shown on the *System Configuration* page of the *Platform Configuration* section of the {product-title} UI. In edit mode, the UI allows you to enable or disable one of the predefined metrics.

The `/v1/config` API allows for configuring metrics with custom metric names and a custom set of labels.

Accepted image vulnerability labels:

* Cluster
* Namespace
* Deployment
* IsPlatformWorkload
* ImageID
* ImageRegistry
* ImageRemote
* ImageTag
* Component
* ComponentVersion
* OperatingSystem
* CVE
* CVSS
* Severity
* SeverityV2
* SeverityV3
* IsFixable

> [role="_additional-resources"]
> .Additional resources
> * xref:modules/rbac-resource-definitions.adoc[Resource definitions]

Author: ```suggestion
```

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="configure-custom-prometheus-metrics"]
= Configuring custom Prometheus metrics
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: configure-custom-prometheus-metrics

toc::[]

[role="_abstract"]
With {product-title}, you can enable some Prometheus metrics to be exposed on the `/metrics` path of the central API endpoint.

The available metric categories include:

* Image vulnerabilities;
* Policy violations.

Each category is configured with a data gathering period and a list of metrics. A metric is associated with a set of labels.

[NOTE]
====

> The `/metrics` path is accessible for API tokens with Administration resource view permissions. The values of the labels are subject to Scoped Access Control.

Author: Let's clarify that it is not necessarily the Admin user or Admin role.

====

The currently enabled metrics, if any, are shown on the *System Configuration* page of the *Platform Configuration* section of the {product-title} UI. In edit mode, the UI allows you to enable or disable one of the predefined metrics.

The `/v1/config` API allows for configuring metrics with custom metric names and a custom set of labels.

Accepted image vulnerability labels:

> * Cluster

Author: @kcarmichael08, please advise on formatting of this list and the following.
